1. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. Since its inception in 1983, the newspaper has attracted thousands of readers:
a) renaissance
b) coming
c) commencement
d) Publication
Answer: c

2. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. Mrs Asio wanted her sister to stop being so detached.
a) Friendly
b) Careless
c) indifferent
d) passionate
Answer: c

3. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. Lantana dwelt in a ruined cottage on the hillside.
a) sat
b) worked
c) slept
d) lived
Answer: d

4. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. The mistake bought the show to an ignominious end.
a) a good
b) palatable
c) a disgraceful
d) a satisfactory
Answer: c

5. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. He compliments me on my way of doing things.
a) Complements
b) imitates
c) disgust
d) praises
Answer: d

6. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. The girl is angry with her friend who had ensnared her into this relationship.
a) tricked
b) encouraged
c) forced
d) enslaved
Answer: a

7. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. Their new house was roofed with Corrugated sheet.
a) folded
b) Iron
c) aluminium
d) Corrupted
Answer: a

8. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. The Stockbroker said it was an astute to sell the shares then.
a) a bad
b) a shrewd
c) an unprofitable
d) an Insincere
Answer: b

9. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. The principal described Oche as the most tactful person he ever worked with.
a) passionate
b) discreet
c) hardworking
d) Innovative
Answer: b

10. Choose the option nearest in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. The old woman is suffering from dementia.
a) lucidity
b) senility
c) Insanity
d) Sagacity
Answer: b

11. Select the option that best explains the information conveyed in the sentence. If he were here, it could be more fun.
a) He was expected but did not show up
b) There was no fun because he was not present
c) He did not show up and so the occasion lacked much fun
d) He was being expected to supply more fun
Answer: c

12. Select the option that best explains the information conveyed in the sentence. The secretary said that the postponement of the meeting was due to unforeseen circumstances.
a) The date of the meeting was shifted as a result of unexpected reasons
b) The meeting's date was put off for strange reasons
c) The meeting was called as a result of obstacles hitherto unknown
d) The meeting broke off as a result of unusual difficulties
Answer: a

13. Select the option that best explains the information conveyed in the sentence. The hunter has a bird's eye view of the animals.
a) He views animals from a high position
b) He views the birds eye
c) he views the birds on tree with one eye
d) He watches animals and birds closely
Answer: a

14. Select the option that best explains the information conveyed in the sentence. Even though Susan was the last in the examination, her result wasn't too different from what had been expected.
a) Her result was poor
b) Her result was a disappointment
c) Her result was as expected
d) She had not been serious with her studies
Answer: c

15. Select the option that best explains the information conveyed in the sentence. Mrs Adasu does all her work with more haste, less speed.
a) she accepts whatever she does with more haste and speed
b) She approaches whatever she does hurriedly
c) She approaches whatever she does very quietly to avoid mistakes
d) She does everything carefully to avoid mistake
Answer: d

16. Choose the word that is opposite in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. The warring communities were coerced into negotiating a settlement.
a) driven
b) compelled
c) persuaded
d) pressured
Answer: c

17. Choose the word that is opposite in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. His father served as a mercenary in the army.
a) Preacher
b) Regular
c) Recruit
d) Officer
Answer: b

18. Choose the word that is opposite in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. Jumai is cruel to her husband.
a) harsh
b) brutal
c) passionate
d) ferocious
Answer: c

19. Choose the word that is opposite in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. The teacher who beat the student was treated with mercy.
a) disrespect
b) contempt
c) vengeance
d) kindness
Answer: c

20. Choose the word that is opposite in meaning to the word or phrase underlined. His wife hates his garrulous attitude.
a) outspoken
b) unfriendly
c) reticent
d) thoughtful
Answer: c

21. Choose the option that best completes the gap. When his car tyre ………….on the way, he did not know what to do.
a) lies burst
b) had burst
c) bursted
d) burst
Answer: b

22. Choose the option that best completes the gap. Lami's father ……………. As a gardener when he was young, but now he is a driver.
a) had been working
b) use to work
c) has worked
d) used to work
Answer: d

23. Choose the option that best completes the gap. ………….. he switches on the light, the shadow disappears.
a) whenever
b) except
c) since
d) until
Answer: d

24. Choose the option that best completes the gap. It is important that you clear the refuse in front of your house every ……….
a) fourtnight
b) fortnight
c) fourthnight
d) forthnight
Answer: b

25. Choose the option that best completes the gap. The policemen became suspicious as the hoodlums …………in their office.
a) ferreted
b) ferreted
c) ferreted about
d) ferreted about
Answer: d